# Une soirée de quickies

Ce soir nous accueillerons en vidéo plusieurs personnes pour de
courtes présentations variées.

Les vidéos sont [ici](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XIoqTs5qNzg).


## Paul Gay, Ingénieur Machine Learning LumenAI, http://lumenai.fr/.

Titre : Complementarity of graph neural networks and community detection

Résumé : I will present one of our research projects about how
unsupervised community detection techniques can improve the popular
graph neural networks, a supervised method to learn on graph data, and
help them to better encode the topology of the graph.

Bio : Paul Gay obtained his PhD in 2014 at the Université du Maine and
worked as a researcher until 2018, with his main topics including
machine learning applied to face and speaker indexing, computer
vision, with a strong bias toward graphical models. He joined LumenAI
in 2019 where he works mainly on multimedia indexing.

## Romain Goussault, Data scientist au CHU de Nantes.

Titre : Analyse des meilleures approches au challenge de
classification d'images ISIC 2019.

Résumé : Je vais étudier les meilleurs solutions du challenge de
classification d'image ISIC 2019. C'est un dataset de 25k images de
dermatologie, 8 classes très "imbalanced" et une 9ème classe présente
uniquement dans le test set.

Site du challenge : https://challenge2019.isic-archive.com/

Lecture : https://isic-challenge-stade.s3.amazonaws.com/99bdfa5c-4b6b-4c3c-94c0-f614e6a05bc4/method_description.pdf?AWSAccessKeyId=AKIA2FPBP3II4S6KTWEU&Signature=2aKW1L8vceKP9LMO9wf%2FBH7BJcc%3D&Expires=1588195171

## Title: Uncertainty Measurements for the Reliable Classification of Mammograms

Summary: Deep learning tools, such as convolutional neuronal networks,
are widely used for the classification of images and medical imaging
is not an exception. Since the classifiers are used for clinical
decision support, reliability is a great concern. I'll talk about a
few uncertainty measurement techniques that allow identifying the most
uncertain cases and preventing from a wrong decision making.

Bio: Mickael "Mike" Tardy is a Ph.D. candidate at Ecole Centrale de
Nantes and chief researcher at Hera-MI. He builds
machine-learning-based solutions for early breast cancer
detection. His main research interests are weakly supervised learning
and uncertainty estimation.

Lecture : https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007%2F978-3-030-32226-7_55

## Paul Peton, consultant lead data scientist

Titre : De l'entrainement au déploiement en un script avec le SDK azureml

Résumé : Le SDK Python pour Azure Machine Learning permet de piloter
tous les éléments de la chaine de mise en production d'un algorithme :
connexion aux sources de données, entrainement (sur un cluster si
besoin), évaluation et déploiement d'une image Docker.

Bio : Microsot AI MVP, n'ayant jamais tranché entre Data Scientist et
Data Engineer, Data Miner dans l'âme.

Lecture : https://github.com/methodidacte/azureml/blob/master/DPG%20-%20Paul%20Peton%20-%20Another%20story%20of%20MLOps.pdf
